---
title: 'Speakerâ€™s Story: Laurie Barth, Software Engineer and Conference Speaker'
date: '2019-03-17'
layout: post
path: '/blog/speakers-story-laurie-barth/'
image: 'https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1200/1*fM3yLcP58eVXUsdeHAnVdA.jpeg'
category: "Speaker's Story"
---

_Technology conference speakers come from a wide range of backgrounds,
experience levels, and interests. At [CFP Land](https://www.cfpland.com/), we
highlight different speakers every week in our Speakerâ€™s Story blog posts._

<!--more-->

### Tell me about yourself? How did you get into public speaking?

Iâ€™m Laurie and Iâ€™m a software engineer. I got into speaking for a couple of
reasons. In my former life I was an active member of the debate team and did a
lot of musical theatre, so audiences donâ€™t scare me. I decided I wanted to be
involved in technical speaking in part because I wanted to see more diversity
represented on the stage.

<img src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1200/1*fM3yLcP58eVXUsdeHAnVdA.jpeg" class="left" />

### What do you like about speaking at conferences?

There is so much to love about speaking.

I like thinking up the talk subject and coming up with something I think is new
or interesting that will benefit attendees. While writing talks are a huge time
commitment, there is nothing quite like explaining a concept to others to help
crystalize it in your mind.

And, speaking is an incredible way to connect with other people outside of your
tech silo and/or geographic area. It has also opened up additional career
opportunities for me, and has resulted in growing in different directions as
well, like writing blog posts and answering interview questions!

### Do you remember your first conference talk? How did it go?

I do! It was a local first year conference. I think the talk was meant to be 20
minutes or so and I was overly concerned about running short.

It went pretty well, and people laughed at my jokes, but I was far more nervous
than Iâ€™d expected to be. If you want to judge for yourself [the video is
online](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eS8tO3Z6E7U&t=579s). I really should
retool this talk and give it again.

<div class='embed-container'><iframe src='https://www.youtube.com/embed//eS8tO3Z6E7U' frameborder='0' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

_Laurie Barthâ€™s first ever conference talk at DC Full Stack Web Summit, 2017_

### How many conferences have you applied to and spoken at?

I looked at my Trello board, and Iâ€™ve applied to around 35 conferences over the
course of 3 years. Iâ€™ve been accepted at 12 and spoken at 9â€“10 of those.

### Do you have a pre-talk routine?

I try to arrive in the room as early as I can after the previous speaker, and
normally I run the talk through without notes while getting ready that morning.
As long as I know I have the cues in my head Iâ€™m not worried about any further
memorization.

### What advice do you have for new speakers?

My biggest piece of advice is about content.

The talks that are most engaging to me include stories of failure, they talk
about learning something you donâ€™t know and falling down along the way, or
theyâ€™re a new perspective from an outsider on a specific topic.

This isnâ€™t a hard and fast rule, but I think itâ€™s a great way to think about
potential topics and to feel confident being honest with your audience. Youâ€™ll
be more memorable.

### Are there any other speakers you look up to? Anyone whoâ€™s inspired you?

So so many! I really couldnâ€™t pick so Iâ€™ll try and talk about speakers with
totally different types of talks.

I love [Nicholas Means](https://twitter.com/nmeans) who takes you through
incredibly real stories about disasters and almost disasters and what we can
learn from them.

<div class='embed-container'><iframe src='https://www.youtube.com/embed//099cHWSbAL8' frameborder='0' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

I love [Emily Freeman](https://twitter.com/editingemily) who talks about how the
human reactions of all of us manifest themselves in our work and how that can
help us be more cognizant of our actions.

<div class='embed-container'><iframe src='https://www.youtube.com/embed//dbKjzxd-f70' frameborder='0' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

Iâ€™ve recently discovered some amazing speakers through youtube videos like
[Philip Roberts](https://twitter.com/philip_roberts) who did a great talk on the
javascript event loop:

<div class='embed-container'><iframe src='https://www.youtube.com/embed//8aGhZQkoFbQ' frameborder='0' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

### Where can readers find out more about you?

I have a website: [laurieontech.com](http://laurieontech.com/) (pardon the lack
of responsive design, I just migrated to a new framework and itâ€™s a work in
progress). I also tweet a fair amount
@[laurieontech](https://twitter.com/laurieontech?lang=en).

---

If youâ€™re a tech conference speaker, email karl@cfpland.com to tell your story. ðŸ’Œ
