---
title: 'Speaker’s Story: Laura Janusek, Chief Product Officer in Educational Technology'
date: '2019-03-31'
layout: post
path: '/blog/speakers-story-laura-janusek/'
category: "Speaker's Story"
---

_Technology conference speakers come from a wide range of backgrounds,
experience levels, and interests. At [CFP Land](https://www.cfpland.com/), we
highlight different speakers every week in our Speaker’s Story blog posts._

Laura is currently the [Chief Product Officer at Modern
Teacher](https://www.modernteacher.com/), an edtech startup based in Chicago,
IL. She was recently featured as a [“Woman on Top in
Tech”](https://www.asianentrepreneur.org/women-on-top-in-tech-laura-janusek-vice-president-of-product-and-founding-team-member-of-modern-teacher/) by Asian Entrepreneur magazine, and has been involved in public speaking for
many years. In this interview, we cover how she got into speaking at tech
conferences, her advice for new speakers, and some of the ways speaking has
benefited her professionally.

<!--more-->

![](https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/1200/1*0KSCAln6MEJrW0a3URY6ow.jpeg)

### How did you get into public speaking?

I’ve become a more active speaker at technical conferences just in the last
year. Over the past several years, I would speak here and there, generally after
being invited by someone involved with the event. But last year I was looking
into conferences I might want to attend for women in tech, and I saw a CFP on
the website for one of them. I thought, “Oh, maybe instead of just attending
these conferences, I could speak at them,” and I was right!

I wish I had realized sooner that **you don’t always have to be personally
invited to speak at events.** Now that I’m aware of the CFP process, I’m
speaking regularly at conferences across the country.

### What do you like about speaking at conferences? Has it benefited your career?

I think conferences can be such a fun way to meet people, whether you’re
speaking or not. But I have to admit, being a speaker has its perks. There are
dinners, networking events, sometimes lounges specifically for the speakers,
which build an immediate sense of community. I’ve been blown away by some of the
other speakers I’ve met in these settings.

Speaking also establishes your authority in your subject area, and it gives you
the chance to genuinely help people learn something new. This teaching aspect is
especially important to me, given my background in the education space.

### Do you remember your first conference talk? How did it go?

Being in EdTech, I’ve always spoken at events for teachers, which was a natural
progression from being in the classroom and participating in or leading
professional development sessions. But my first speaking engagement that was for
more of a technical and business-oriented audience was on a panel of EdTech
entrepreneurs at [Chicago’s tech incubator and hub, 1871](https://1871.com/).
One of the organizers had seen me giving a product demo and asked for me to join
the event, perhaps to help them avoid the dreaded all-male panel (or “manel”).

And again, this experience corrected some misconceptions I had about public
speaking. I used to think all panelists must be exceptional at coming up with
off-the-cuff responses to tricky questions on the spot, and maybe some of them
are, but that’s definitely not the norm.

In my experience at the 1871's event, the panelists were all given the questions
ahead of time so we could prepare, and I was asked if I’d be comfortable kicking
the panel off by responding to the first question. I didn’t need to worry about
coming up with responses in the moment, because I was prepped ahead of time,
which made the experience a lot less intimidating. And the format of a panel —
being seated, one in a row of several speakers — creates a more casual vibe as
well. **I’d definitely recommend panels as a gateway experience for anyone who
is considering branching out into public speaking.**

### How many conferences have you applied to and spoken at?

I’ve spoken at about 10 conferences to date, and I currently have 4 more
scheduled in the coming months. I don’t keep count on how many I’ve applied to,
but it’s been a lot! **I definitely don’t get accepted to every event — I don’t
think anyone does.** But I’ve very much enjoyed the conferences I’ve been a part
of, and I’m looking forward to the ones ahead.

### Do you have a pre-talk routine?

I try to access the room some time before my session to make sure the AV setup
is good to go, but apart from that, I’m usually attending someone else’s session
right up until it’s time for mine to start!

I know not everyone’s schedules allow them to spend the full day at the event,
but **I think it’s a shame when speakers come in just for their session and then
leave.** I make it a point to support and learn from the other speakers when I’m
at a conference, so my session is usually one of many that I participate in
throughout the day.

### What advice do you have for new speakers?

My biggest piece of advice is to just go for it!

I’m involved in a lot of online communities, and I’ll see people posting in
Slack, asking if they should respond to a CFP they’re interested in. My response
is always yes. Why not? **It doesn’t take much to respond to a CFP. You don’t
have to have a whole session ready to go. You just need an idea and an
abstract.**

Think of something you’ve been successful at professionally, and then think of
what advice you’d give to others on that topic. Can you come up with 5–10 tips
to make your audience better at X? A coding language, a new tool, even a soft
skill? Then you’ve got enough to respond to a CFP.

There are a lot of resources on writing strong CFP submissions, so I’d recommend
doing a little research in that area, but **don’t be intimidated, especially if
you’re a member of an underrepresented group. Conferences need more
representation of diversity and inclusion.** Go for it!

### Are there any other speakers who have inspired you?

One that comes to mind is Jennifer Wesley at Google, who gave the opening
remarks at the Women Techmakers Summit in Chicago for International Women’s Day
recently. She stands out to me because she was able to get personal on stage,
and in doing so, she established that the summit was a safe space for women.
**By being willing to be a little vulnerable with her personal story, she set
the tone for the whole day.**

<div class='embed-container'><iframe src='https://www.youtube.com/embed/95g2cd8pwe8' frameborder='0' allowfullscreen></iframe></div>

_Jennifer Wesley at TEDxParker speaking about women in STEM_

**8. Where can readers find more about you?**

I always post about my upcoming sessions on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/LBJanusek) and
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lbjanusek/), and I share speaker
discounts there when I can, so follow or connect with me if you’re interested.

---

If you’re a tech conference speaker, email karl@cfpland.com to tell your story. 💌
